so my my name is Dean smelvin I am the
Galactica's maintainer and we're gonna
talk a little bit about what's going on
and go a PFS 0.6 and and going forward
[Music]
all right so 0.6 highlights we have
quick noise
producting connections ipfs 404 and base
36 so I'll sort of go through these one
by one see see how we're done
so quick it's now enabled by default
it's it's been around as an experimental
feature for a while now we're using
quick draft 28 as it's going to be sort
of the least stable one within ipfs for
those of you who are unfamiliar quick is
a udp-based streaming transport that is
sort of bundled with all of the goodies
that you might want in a streaming
transport including encryption and
streaming and stream multiplexing so
allowing multiple streams of data over a
single connection quick will allow us to
have lower connection times between
peers like you know much lower 1/3 as
many round trips which is fantastic for
things like DHT queries where you're
gonna be querying many new peers
additionally going forward we can add
the ability for sort of know round trips
required resuming of connections which
means like you could store information
what peers you'd encountered in the past
and as long as they're still at the same
IP address so you can still find them
you could send them new messages even if
you are not currently connected to them
additionally won't consume file
descriptors like TCP does which makes it
easier to have more and more connections
which is great for sort of a greedy
peer-to-peer system that wants to just
know everything about what's happening
on the network so that it can get you
where you're going is as fast as
possible and finally
a quick is really nice because it paves
the way for us using udp-based
natural-bristle techniques within a give
us UDP night reversal is much easier to
accomplish and and more well understood
then tcp mat reversal and so this should
make finding content and providing
content from peers that are behind masks
or you know on on cellular networks that
i don't really allow you to don't allow
other peers to talk to them to start
working next up is noise we have
experimental support for the noise
security transport noise is going to be
easier for most likely fest
implementations to work with than TLS
which is why a number of other look EDP
implementation other than gallupi to p
have been brilliant to using noise as
their secure as their default security
transport noise is more widely used
embedded in Sakaya which is the kuraki
FS default and we're in the future
planning to use noise to replace sec is
the defaults cross implementation
security transports this is like a
really really good step forward on i
could on IG festive ecosystem growth and
and security staying connected i
professed as a peer-to-peer system you
connect appears you need to stay
connected to the information from them
that you that you need to deal with the
fact that we have so many peers that
we're talking that we might talk to you
know over the course of running and IPS
node we have to decide which connections
are the most valuable and keep them
around and get rid of the connections
that we don't need right now it
currently works by basically figuring
out the score of usefulness of each peer
and then saying oh which ones aren't
useful and getting rid of them but there
are some peers that are sort of
extremely important to stay
connected to whether a short-term or
long-term and so we'd like to be we now
protect those connections and say
they're not even under consideration
from being terminated
this means peers that you're like you
know actively bit swapping with they're
useful tht peers those are the types of
peers that we're going to try and
maintain connections to in addition we
now have a caring configuration where if
there's a particular node that you want
to stay connected to you know you run a
bunch of infrastructure nodes and you
want to make sure they're all well
connected to each other your Gateway is
connected to your cluster or or any
number of other notes that you want to
be insured are always able to quickly do
things like that swap with each other
you can now add those into the peering
configuration and it'll get taken care
of for you so I'd be best 404 if any of
you ever gotten a bad link from someone
I you like a link that was never valid
for instance this you may have gotten a
kind of gross error message but what if
you could have an error message that
looked like this it's much nicer this is
not necessarily common for a key best
paths because they're immutable and so
the odds of someone giving you a bad
path are very low but for mutable paths
this is entirely possible right if I go
to a if I use you know I can S or DNS
link to resolve some path you know could
have been here it could have been there
and maybe was there a week ago but now
is not there because the data underneath
it has changed right this is the the
nature of mutable things instead of
immutable things and so having you know
a more convenient error message or nicer
one has been one requested feature all
right base 36 support so the multi
formats project including multi base
allows us to have many different ways of
representing the same bits we now use
base 36 to support in order to support
having elliptic curve keys as IP NS keys
and using them inside a web domains
subdomain gateways was added you know
answer about five and has it basically
allows for extra security in web
browsers but there's a maximum label
size so we're using base 36 to get
around this which will allow us to use
elliptic curve keys by default elliptic
curve keys by default is is great you
should you should be very excited about
lipstick curve keys I know I am because
their small size lets us save on
bandwidth and storage and memory but and
also allows us to finally have signed
provider records when you tell people
about content right now they're served
on in an ad hoc way to make sure that
you know you are the peer that tells
people you have data but if you have
sign provider records then all of a
sudden you can ask people to talk to the
DHD on your behalf and say oh hey you
have I have data please tell the DHD
that I have data it also add us to add
more context to provider records and add
more add more field saying like I have
not just this this C ID but the entire
dag underneath the CID and going forward
we have some DHT resilience things that
we'd like to do in particular routing
tables which tell you which peers you
should interact with and help you guide
your way as you crawl through this DHT
network to find information currently we
just look for peers that seem useful and
we talk to them but we like to find
other ways to keep the peers that we're
interested in talking to you know have a
better set of those tiers have ones that
have been historically useful have ones
that are currently online and have been
stable for you know the last
a couple hours and have diverse
characteristics so that we sort of are
not affected by one area of the network
having trouble and and network
transitions as Molly showed earlier
there's been even since 0.5 was released
due to people upgrading the performance
of the network has increased but it's
sort of a shame that we have to wait for
the network to upgrade for people who
just up you know if you upgrade to you
know if you were to upgrade to 0.5 on
day one it would have been nice if you
could experienced a lot of the upgrades
without waiting for the rest of the
network to also update their versions so
figuring out how to do this will make
life for everyone
much easier because it highly
incentivizes updating immediately
because you'll get these really nice
benefits without necessarily waiting for
everyone else and it will allow us to to
iterate on the protocol faster and more
efficiently
so that's a that's our that's our blast
and happy to take any questions thank
you awesome Thank You Dean we do have a
couple of questions very excited for the
network upgrading that's gonna be huge
for the future and being able to
continue to roll out awesome stuff so
take your first one from Stefan what's
the best way to figure out what's going
on in my node like trying to get an idea
why I cannot route to another node that
serves a certain content debug peers
historically etc visually Prometheus
kevanna best practices yeah that's a
great question I think this has a lot of
debugging tools sort of built into it
you can you can sort you can use logging
for certain sub systems like the DHT
there are sort of events that you can
print out and sort of like a nice JSON
format to get to you know make it a
little easier to parse to figure out
what's happening
um one of the difficult things it's sort
of like step one to check as always are
these peer is actually diable right now
like that's something we should
definitely add in CYFS is the way to
tell you like you are dot you know hey
you are diable
or you're not dial of all did you think
you were supposed to be so that's we
should definitely add more of that but
there are the FS command line has like
tons of tools available and also has
like Prometheus metrics and such like
that that you can you can interact with
to try and learn more about what's
happening on your node great alright
next question what was the advantage of
using base 36 over base 58 the advantage
was that it is it can be represented in
either lowercase or uppercase and in
particular the reason for using base 36
is to get the key get the IP and s keys
for elliptic curve keys to fit into the
subdomain so like you know
KABC dot ip-ah ip-ah nice thought the
web dot link and basically it won't do
that because it has both uppercase and
lowercase characters and so DNS is like
nope bad news so it was kind of the only
option we had we were using base 32
previously but the keys were just a
little too big for the label size yeah
which caused nightmares for SSL and all
kinds of things yeah cool any
integration effort to run go ipfs as a
tor hidden service not sure about a
first run is a hidden service but as the
only point out in the chat there is a
tour like transport that that you can
use if you are interested in protecting
your IP address using distributed
the like-liked or while using a class